Add Beatmap Spotlights Autumn 2023 news post & wiki article (#10275)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2023/2023-10-23-beatmap-spotlights-season-10-autumn-2023.md

---
layout: post
title: "Beatmap Spotlights Season 10: Autumn 2023"
date: 2023-10-23 18:00:00 +0000
---

> You heard it right, the Beatmap Spotlights are back with the **10th Season**! As moody as autumn days can get, wake up and compete on the best beatmapping creations of last months right now!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You heard it right, the Beatmap Spotlights are back with its **10th Season**! With how moody autumn days can get, you can fix that by competing on the best beatmapping creations of last months right now!
```

![](/wiki/shared/news/banners/beatmap-spotlights.jpg)

> After a bit of a breathing break to sort some of management surrounding Beatmap Spotlights, we'd like to announce that we are back with the **10th season of Beatmap Spotlights**. With Autumn 2023 season starting, we'd like to thank you for staying with us for 2-digit amount of iterations over the years of playlist-oriented history of Beatmap Spotlights! Even though this season will remain rather regular, we are preparing some bigger-schema changes for the next ones so stay prepared for that!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a bit of a breathing break to sort out some of the management challenges surrounding Beatmap Spotlights, we'd like to announce that we are back with the **10th season of Beatmap Spotlights**. With Autumn 2023 season starting, we'd like to thank you for staying with us for 2-digit amount of iterations over the years of playlist-oriented history of Beatmap Spotlights! Even though this season will remain rather regular, we are preparing some bigger-scheme changes for the next ones, so stay prepared for that!
```

> After a bit of a breathing break to sort out some of the management challenges surrounding Beatmap Spotlights, we'd like to announce that we are back with the **10th season of Beatmap Spotlights**. With Autumn 2023 season starting, we'd like to thank you for staying with us for 2-digit amount of iterations over the years of playlist-oriented history of Beatmap Spotlights! Even though this season will remain rather regular, we are preparing some bigger-scheme changes for the next ones, so stay prepared for that!

Reviewer 2: ```Suggestion
After taking a brief pause to address some of the management challenges surrounding Beatmap Spotlights, we'd like to announce that we are back with the **10th season of Beatmap Spotlights**. With Autumn 2023 season commencing, we'd like to thank you for staying with us through the many iterations over the years of playlist-oriented history of Beatmap Spotlights! Even though this season's playlists will remain rather regular, we are preparing some bigger-scheme changes for the next ones, so stay prepared for that!
```

> If you just can't wait to try everything out, **the Beatmap Spotlights lobbies are now open for play NOW on osu!(lazer)**, so go get involved and start setting scores.

Reviewer 2: ```Suggestion
If you just can't wait to try everything out, **the Beatmap Spotlights lobbies are open for play *NOW* on osu!(lazer)**, so go get involved and start setting scores.
```

> If you still don't have any idea about what the entire Beatmap Spotlights thing could be, just read on below to find out how to jump into the world of playlist-oriented competition now:

Reviewer 2: ```Suggestion
If you still don't have any idea about what *Beatmap Spotlights* are, just read on below to find out how to jump into the world of playlist-oriented competition now: 
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you still don't have any idea about what this *Beatmap Spotlights* thing could be, just read on below to find out how to jump into the world of playlist-oriented competition now:
```

if anything

## How do I participate in the Beatmap Spotlights?

> To participate in the Beatmap Spotlights, download the latest version of the osu!(lazer) client from its [GitHub releases page](https://github.com/ppy/osu/releases/latest).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To participate in the Beatmap Spotlights, go grab yourself the latest version of the osu!(lazer) client from this [download page](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/download).
```

feels friendlier to link the official download page rather than github

Author: yeah, probably a leftover from when it wasn't a thing on web

> Once you're done installing and logging into your account, head on over to the playlists tab in the play section and find the Spotlights lobbies as denoted by a little pink bar. You can also toggle the filter to show only the Spotlights playlists in the top-right corner. 

Reviewer 2: might be a lot of quotes but makes it more understandable for what they are supposed to be exactly finding. At least this is what we usually do in the help forum.

```Suggestion
Once you're done installing and logging into your osu! account, head on over to the "playlists" tab in the "play" section and find the "Spotlights" lobbies, denoted by a little pink bar. You can also toggle the filter to show only the "Spotlights" playlists in the top-right corner.
```

Reviewer 3: wiki convention would be to do something like this, with interface text in code blocks

```suggestion
Once you're done installing and logging into your account, head on over to the `playlists` tab in the `play` section and find the Spotlights lobbies, denoted by a little pink bar. You can also toggle the filter to show only the Spotlights playlists in the top-right corner. 
```

Changing game modes is as simple as clicking one of the four mode icons at the top left of your screen — and it'll be whatever game mode you played last on osu!(lazer) by default.

## Updates

### The end of the gimmick era

> After some of successful gimmick season runs, we decided that it's time to move on as they became too limiting or challenging to implement for certain game modes. Rather than forcing new and unimaginative themes, we would like to make a return to the good ol' classic three-playlist format filled with great beatmapping creations testing a wide variety of skills and fitting to all kind of nieches.

Reviewer 2: ```Suggestion
After some of successful gimmick season runs, we decided that it's time to move on as they became too limiting or challenging to implement for certain game modes. Rather than forcing new and unimaginative themes, we would like to make a return to the good ol' classic three-playlist format filled with great beatmapping creations testing a wide variety of skills and fitting to all kind of niches.
```

> That being said, we are planning to experiment a little with the shape of Beatmap Spotlights as-is so take this rather as a tactic step-back to place a big one forward coming along with the future seasons!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That being said, we are planning to experiment a little with the shape of Beatmap Spotlights as-is, so take this rather as a tactical step-back to prepare for a big step forward coming along with the future seasons!
```

> That being said, we are planning to experiment a little with the shape of Beatmap Spotlights as-is, so take this rather as a tactical step-back to prepare for a big step forward coming along with the future seasons!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That being said, we are planning to experiment a little with the shape of Beatmap Spotlights as is, so take this rather as a tactical step back to prepare for a big step forward coming along with the future seasons!
```

*primarily suggested and described by [Nowaie](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5428909)*

This absolute classic may not be the most stellar piece of mapping execution-wise these days but the fun aspects of the map still hit a relatively strong home run after 12 years. 

Handling the speed of the guitar solos and Miku spitting some bars may still not be for the faint of heart but val0108's distinct mapping style still manages to make this challenge a fun ride for any player at any skill level. This map is jam-packed with alternating patterns and crazy sliders while being as approachable as possible. So take a stroll down the memory lanes and have some fun, with a dance number.

### osu!taiko

![](/wiki/shared/news/2023-10-23-beatmap-spotlights-season-10-autumn-2023/1613520.jpg)

**[Camellia feat. Nanahira - POLKAMANIA (Faputa) [BLACK'S MUZUKASHII]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1613520#taiko/3304046)**, mapped by [BlackBN](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6291741)\
*primarily suggested by [[Zeth]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9912966)*\
*described by [meiqth](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12565402)*

> This season, our players decided to nominate BlackBN's simple mapping of *Camellia feat. Nanahira - POLKAMANIA* as their favorite. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This season, our players decided to nominate BlackBN's simple mapping of *Camellia feat. Nanahira - POLKAMANIA* as their favourite. 
```

When the harder difficulties on this set prove too difficult with their interpretation of the song's complex rhythm, this Muzukashii provides a light at the end of the tunnel by keeping all the song has to offer at a manageable difficulty for our learning players. Finding a solid balance between uncommon rhythm and the players' intuition, this map follows the song's offbeat and varying rhythms in a sense that'll give a fun and unique playing experience to an inexperienced player!

### osu!catch

![](/wiki/shared/news/2023-10-23-beatmap-spotlights-season-10-autumn-2023/253969.jpg)

**[Halozy - Genryuu Kaiko [Distorted Scythe]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/253969#fruits/582801)**, mapped by [CLSW](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/531253)\
*primarily suggested and described by [SadEgg](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10278243)*

> Truly a spectacle of a map, Genryuu Kaiko comes to mind to many as one of the many greats of catch. Whether you're a rookie or a fruit catching veteran, you've probably heard about this map before. 8 years after it's original release, this map has become a staple among profiles past and present and for the advancement of catch mapping overall. Whether it be streams, anti-flow, wiggles, or hyper chains, this map has it all without making it seem too out of place. Every section flows as smooth as water dripping off of a distorted scythe. 
> 
> Boasting the history of catch over its shoulders such as the catch pp record multiple times, CLSW created a fruitful masterpiece that this game mode has come to love and enjoy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Truly a spectacle of a map, *Genryuu Kaiko* comes to mind to many as one of the many greats of osu!catch. Whether you're a rookie or a fruit catching veteran, you've probably heard about this map before. 8 years after its original release, this map has become a staple among profiles past and present and for the advancement of catch mapping overall. Whether it be streams, anti-flow, wiggles, or hyper chains, this map has it all without making it seem too out of place. Every section flows as smooth as water dripping off of a distorted scythe. 

Boasting the history of catch over its shoulders such as the catch pp record multiple times, CLSW created a fruitful masterpiece that this game mode has come to love and enjoy.
```

### osu!mania

![](/wiki/shared/news/2023-10-23-beatmap-spotlights-season-10-autumn-2023/376340.jpg)

**[Seiryu - Critical Crystal [[4K] Another]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/376340#mania/823920)**, mapped by [Sandalphon](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2633753)\
*primarily suggested and described by [Antalf](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8793773)*

> Critical Crystal having won may not come as a surprise for many of you, this timeless piece is for sure in your folder whether you're a new player or one of the oldies!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Critical Crystal* having won may not come as a surprise for many of you, as this timeless piece is for sure in your folder whether you're a new player or one of the oldies!
```

> This map could be considered the setting stone of some modern jumpstream maps within the osu!mania community itself. It features intense jumptrills, smooth jumpstreams for a very well rounded experience!

Reviewer 3: what is a "setting stone"?

```suggestion
This map could be considered the cornerstone of some modern jumpstream maps within the osu!mania community itself. It features intense jumptrills and smooth jumpstreams for a very well rounded experience!
```

> Even after a whopping 8 years of this map being submitted, it's still played and loved by many, seen as a comfort map to return to when the grind becomes exhausting. If you haven't played such an iconic map yet, I encourage you to go ahead and play a piece of mania's history! 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Even after a whopping 8 years of this map being submitted, it's still played and loved by many, seen as a comfort map to return to when the grind becomes exhausting. If you haven't played such an iconic map yet, I encourage you to go ahead and play a piece of osu!mania's history! 
```

### Full Players' Pick voting results

Check out each respective game mode's player voting results:

- [osu!](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/180)
- [osu!taiko](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/181)
- [osu!catch](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/182)
- [osu!mania](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/183)

## Season schedule and leaderboards

| Event | Time |
| :-- | :-- |
| Season start | Oct 23, 2023 |

> | Playlist lobby: Playlist A | Oct 23 - Nov 6, 2023 |
> | Playlist lobby: Playlist B | Nov 6 - Nov 20, 2023 |
> | Playlist lobby: Playlist C | Nov 20 - Dec 4, 2023 |
> | Playlist lobby: Playlist A | Dec 4 - Dec 11, 2023 |
> | Playlist lobby: Playlist B | Dec 11 - Dec 18, 2023 |
> | Playlist lobby: Playlist C | Dec 18 - Dec 25, 2023 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Playlist lobby: Playlist A | Oct 23 – Nov 6, 2023 |
| Playlist lobby: Playlist B | Nov 6 – Nov 20, 2023 |
| Playlist lobby: Playlist C | Nov 20 – Dec 4, 2023 |
| Playlist lobby: Playlist A | Dec 4 – Dec 11, 2023 |
| Playlist lobby: Playlist B | Dec 11 – Dec 18, 2023 |
| Playlist lobby: Playlist C | Dec 18 – Dec 25, 2023 |
```

| Season conclusion | Dec 25, 2023 |

The Autumn Season 2023 leaderboard will be available over at the [Beatmap Spotlights Autumn 2023 wiki article](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/Seasons/2023_Autumn) once the first batch of lobbies conclude in the coming weeks.

## Rewards

| Badges | Bracket tier | Placement |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
| ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/ri_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/ri_2.png) | Rhythm Incarnate | The best of the best |
| ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/diamond_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/diamond_2.png) | Diamond | 3% |

> | ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/platinum_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/platinum_2.png) | Platinum | 3% - 10% |
> | ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/gold_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/gold_2.png) | Gold | 10% - 25% |
> | ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/silver_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/silver_2.png) | Silver | 25% - 50% |
> | ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/bronze_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/bronze_2.png) | Bronze | 50% - 70% |
> | ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/copper_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/copper_2.png) | Copper | 70% - 95% |
> | ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/iron_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/iron_2.png) | Iron | 95% - 100% |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/platinum_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/platinum_2.png) | Platinum | 3% – 10% |
| ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/gold_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/gold_2.png) | Gold | 10% – 25% |
| ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/silver_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/silver_2.png) | Silver | 25% – 50% |
| ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/bronze_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/bronze_2.png) | Bronze | 50% – 70% |
| ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/copper_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/copper_2.png) | Copper | 70% – 95% |
| ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/iron_1.png) ![](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights/img/badges/autumn_2023/osu/iron_2.png) | Iron | 95% – 100% |
```

The percentage values may vary a little depending on the game mode and/or participant counts.

The Rhythm Incarnate tier threshold is picked manually based on the season's participant count and general size of other tiers, though it is an absolute number that ranges between top 2 and top 50 in most cases.

> ## Spring Season 2023 first playlists

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Autumn Season 2023 first playlists
```

- [Autopsy Protcol - Akai (pencil's Hardtechno Bootleg) (AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH) \[\[4K\] Thrash\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1432750#mania/2948731), suggested by [YuEast 2018](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/13953619)
- [Jaroslav Beck - $100 Bills (Camellia's "215$-Step" Remix) (Nezu-) \[\[4K\] ONE MILLION DOLLAH\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1941767#mania/4016349), suggested by [Seulgi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4918394)
- [penoreri - Lancelot ~Flame of the Rebellion~ (Amiichii) \[\[4K\] LNCELOT\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1306461#mania/4144490), suggested by [Maxus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4335785)
- [Silentroom vs. Frums - Aegleseeker ("Afterworld" Full Version) (Blocko) \[\[7K\] Extra\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1868798#mania/3886482), suggested by [Maxus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4335785)
- [MY FIRST STORY feat. chelly (EGOIST) - 1,000,000 TIMES (Salty Mermaid) \[\[6K\] Until the End of Eternity\]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1591530#mania/3250519), suggested by [Ilham](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3057154)

## Inside the Spotlights Team

> This season was rather a calm one when it comes to amount of the faces swapping around, we've got some huge qualitative-level changes to announce though!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This season was rather a calm one when it comes to amount of the faces swapping around, but we've got some huge qualitative-level changes to announce nonetheless!
```

> [Crumpey](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3518705), after long years of involvement in Beatmap Spotlights as a osu!mania team leader, will be taking official manager position from now on, helping the project achieve its goals in bigger schema. [meiqth](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12565402) will also take over osu!taiko team leadership, replacing [Hivie](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14102976) on that position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Crumpey](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3518705), after long years of involvement in Beatmap Spotlights as an osu!mania team leader, will be taking an official manager position from now on, helping the project achieve its long-term goals. [meiqth](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12565402) will additionally take over osu!taiko team leadership, replacing [Hivie](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14102976) on that position.
```

> [Crumpey](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3518705), after long years of involvement in Beatmap Spotlights as an osu!mania team leader, will be taking an official manager position from now on, helping the project achieve its long-term goals. [meiqth](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12565402) will additionally take over osu!taiko team leadership, replacing [Hivie](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14102976) on that position.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Crumpey](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3518705), after long years of involvement in the Beatmap Spotlights as an osu!mania team leader, will be taking an official manager position from now on, helping the project achieve its long-term goals. [meiqth](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12565402) will additionally take over osu!taiko team leadership, replacing [Hivie](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14102976) on that position.
```

> We will also be saying farwell to [Axer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7299864), who served as a curator for osu!taiko game mode, thanks for your hard efforts!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will also be saying farewell to [Axer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7299864), who served as a dedicated and passionate osu!taiko curator for the past 2.5 years. Thank you for your hard efforts!
```

## The future

> What do you want for the next season? What needs to be fixed? What are your opinions on the current system? You can voice out all your opinions in the [osu! community Discord server](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H) (`#beatmap-spotlights` channel) and we will keep note of every suggestion, so please let us know how you feel about things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What do *you* want to see happen for the next season? What needs to be fixed? What are your opinions on the current system? You can voice out all your opinions in the [osu! community Discord server](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H) (`#beatmap-spotlights` channel) and we will keep note of every suggestion, so please let us know how you feel about things.
```

We do hope you enjoyed the Spring Season 2023 Spotlights, and, of course, we do hope that you'll enjoy the Winter Season even more!

See you in the upcoming lobbies!

---

> Join us over at the [osu! community Discord server](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H) and assign yourself a role to keep up with Spotlights changes and announcements, or visit the [osu!dev Discord server](https://discord.gg/ppy) to help us push this project even further!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Join us over at the [osu! community Discord server](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H) and assign yourself a role to keep up with Spotlights changes and announcements, or visit the [osu! development Discord server](https://discord.gg/ppy) to help us push this project even further!
```

## Beatmap of the Season: Results

As always, we would like you to introduce you to the best maps of each game mode according to the spotlights competitors of Spring Season 2023.

The creator of each winning entry will be awarded with **3 months of osu!supporter** for their hard efforts.

A big thanks for each of you that put a hand up to help with selecting those!

### osu!

After a long and fierce battle, osu! ended up with a tie. Therefore, we've got two winners for this particular vote!

![](/wiki/shared/news/2023-10-23-beatmap-spotlights-season-10-autumn-2023/7380.jpg)

**[Caramell - Caramelldansen (Speedycake Remix) [LESJUH DIFFICULTY]](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/7380#osu/43423)**, mapped by [Lesjuh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/44308)\
*primarily suggested by [Zelq](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8953955)*\
*described by [Venix](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5999631)*\
*amazing lyrics provided by courtesy of [Ephemeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102335)*

Did somebody mention the word *nostalgic*? Couldn't go further than this one certain LESJUH DIFFICULTY.

> Despite it's technically perceived age, Lesjuh's creation aged like wine and remains vital, hooking, and a significant achievement both gameplay- and mapping-wise with its timeless flow and rhythm usage, all coalescing into a drowning and challenging experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Despite its technically perceived age, Lesjuh's creation aged like fine wine and remains a vital, hooking, and significant achievement both gameplay- and mapping-wise with its timeless flow and rhythm usage, all coalescing into a drowning and challenging experience.
```
